---
layout: page
title: Geek-Ups
permalink: /geekups/
---

## What

I'll be hosting casual "maker" events, starting soon.  I'm picturing two
different kinds of events:

* "Project nights" aimed at making something specific together by the end of
the evening.
* "Open nights" for show-and-tell, and for experimenting freely in a setting
where asking questions is comfortable.

## Why

I love to learn.  I love to teach.  I want to give something back to my
community.  I want to meet people who are excited about making stuff.  I want
to give people that fantastic feeling of new ideas they'd never considered
possible before.  I want to guide people up a daunting learning curve towards
stuff that's worth it.  I want people with a career choice ahead of them to
have a better understanding of what a technical career could offer.  I want to
fan away the cloud of fear and mystery for those who are intimidated by
computers.  All of the above.

## When

Soon.  My goal is to start small, sometime in summer or early autumn of 2015.
If you'd like to be notified when we launch, [let me know][email].

## Where

To be determined.  I may host the first few events in my home, but hope to
quickly scale beyond that.  The local public library seems like an obvious next
step.

## Who

Everyone, eventually.  While they're hosted in my home, it will be limited to
those I know personally.  If you're interested in attending, [drop me a
line][email].

## Contributing

For starters, I don't know what to call these things.  Hack nights?  Tech-ups?
Tech nights?  Hacks and Snacks?  Geek-Ups?  If you have ideas, [I'd love to
hear them][email].

Also, I have a list of projects and topics I'd like to cover, but I'm always on
the lookout for more.  If you see something that would make a good beginner
project, send me a link!

Finally, it's going to take some resources to accomplish the sort of hands-on
experience I'm hoping for, and scale it up so that the general public can
attend.  If you are willing and able to donate hardware (especially Arduino,
Raspberry Pi, usb drives, etc) or software licenses, that will help a lot to
get us rolling.  Alternately, if you'd like to make a [monetary
donation][cash-me] for the purchase of hardware or software, it will make a big
difference and be greatly appreciated.

[email]: mailto:warrenjfrancis@gmail.com?subject=GeekUps
[cash-me]: https://cash.me/$warrenfrancis
