geekups.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Geek-Ups
permalink: /geekups/
---

## What

I'll be hosting casual "maker" events, starting soon.  I'm picturing two
different kinds of events:

* "Project nights" aimed at making something specific together by the end of
the evening.
* "Open nights" for show-and-tell, and for experimenting freely in a setting
where asking questions is comfortable.

## Why

I love to learn.  I love to teach.  I want to give something back to my
community.  I want to meet people who are excited about making stuff.  I want
to give people that fantastic feeling of new ideas they'd never considered
possible before.  I want to guide people up a daunting learning curve towards
stuff that's worth it.  I want people with a career choice ahead of them to
have a better understanding of what a technical career could offer.  I want to
fan away the cloud of fear and mystery for those who are intimidated by
computers.  All of the above.

## When

Soon.  My goal is to start small, sometime in summer or early autumn of 2015.

## Who

Everyone, eventually.  While they're hosted in my home, it will be limited to
those I know personally.  If you're interested in attending, [drop me a
line][email]).

## Where

To be determined.  I may host the first few events in my home, but hope to
quickly scale beyond that.  The local public library seems like an obvious next
step.

## What's with that name?

Yeah, I don't know what to call them.  Hack nights?  Tech-ups?  Tech nights?
Hacks and Snacks?  Geek-Ups?  I've got nothing.
[Help][email].  Please.

[email]: mailto:warrenjfrancis@gmail.com?subject=GeekUps

Commit message:

Changed blog title. Rephrased things. Added project media and links.  Added donation link.

geekups.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Geek-Ups
permalink: /geekups/
---

## What

I'll be hosting casual "maker" events, starting soon.  I'm picturing two
different kinds of events:

* "Project nights" aimed at making something specific together by the end of
the evening.
* "Open nights" for show-and-tell, and for experimenting freely in a setting
where asking questions is comfortable.

## Why

I love to learn.  I love to teach.  I want to give something back to my
community.  I want to meet people who are excited about making stuff.  I want
to give people that fantastic feeling of new ideas they'd never considered
possible before.  I want to guide people up a daunting learning curve towards
stuff that's worth it.  I want people with a career choice ahead of them to
have a better understanding of what a technical career could offer.  I want to
fan away the cloud of fear and mystery for those who are intimidated by
computers.  All of the above.

## When

Soon.  My goal is to start small, sometime in summer or early autumn of 2015.

## Who

Everyone, eventually.  While they're hosted in my home, it will be limited to
those I know personally.  If you're interested in attending, [drop me a
line][email]).

## Where

To be determined.  I may host the first few events in my home, but hope to
quickly scale beyond that.  The local public library seems like an obvious next
step.

## How you can help

For starters, I don't know what to call these things.  Hack nights?  Tech-ups?
Tech nights?  Hacks and Snacks?  Geek-Ups?  If you have ideas, I'd love to
[hear them][email].

If you want to donate hardware (especially Arduino, Raspberry Pi, usb drives,
etc) or software licenses, that would be extremely helpful as we get rolling.
Alternately, if you'd like to make a [monetary donation][cash-me], I'll use it
to purchase hardware and software licenses for participants to use.

[email]: mailto:warrenjfrancis@gmail.com?subject=GeekUps
[cash-me]: https://cash.me/$warrenfrancis
